Hardhat quickstart changes (#438)
matter-labs/zksync-web-era-docs: docs/api/hardhat/getting-started.md

[Hardhat](https://hardhat.org) is an Ethereum development environment, designed for easy smart contract development in Solidity. One of its most prominent features is extendability: you can easily add new plugins to your hardhat project.

zkSync Era has the following official plugins for Hardhat:

- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-solc](./hardhat-zksync-solc.md) - used to compile contracts written in Solidity.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-vyper](./hardhat-zksync-vyper.md) - used to compile contracts written in Vyper.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-deploy](./hardhat-zksync-deploy.md) - used to deploy smart contracts.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-chai-matchers](./hardhat-zksync-chai-matchers.md) - adds zkSync-specific capabilities to the [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) assertion library for testing smart contracts.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-verify](./hardhat-zksync-verify.md) - used to verify smart contracts.

::: tip Additional plugins

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Learn more about [other plugins from the community](./other-plugins.md) that you can use with zkSync Era.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::

To learn more about Hardhat itself, check out [its official documentation](https://hardhat.org/getting-started/).

> This tutorial shows how to set up a zkSync Era Solidity project with Hardhat using the [zkSync CLI](../tools/zksync-cli/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to set up a zkSync Era Solidity project with Hardhat using the [zkSync CLI](../tools/zksync-cli/README.md).
```

If you are using Vyper, check out the [Vyper plugin documentation](./hardhat-zksync-vyper.md) or [this example](https://github.com/matter-labs/hardhat-zksync/tree/main/examples/vyper-example) in GitHub!

## Prerequisites

- A Node installation with `yarn` package manager installed.
- You have [installed the zkSync CLI](../tools/zksync-cli/README.md#installation).
- You are already familiar with deploying smart contracts on zkSync. If not, please refer to the first section of the [quickstart tutorial](../../dev/building-on-zksync/hello-world.md).
- You have a wallet with sufficient Göerli `ETH` on L1 to pay for bridging funds to zkSync as well as deploying smart contracts. We recommend using [our faucet from the zkSync portal](https://goerli.portal.zksync.io/faucet).
- You know how to get your [private key from your MetaMask wallet](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key).

> ::: warning Important notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: warning Important
```

- Contracts must be compiled using the [official zkSync Era compilers](../compiler-toolchain/README.md), with their respective Hardhat plugins.
- Contracts compiled with other compilers will fail to deploy to zkSync Era.
:::

## Project setup

> To create a new project run the `create` task of the CLI passing a project name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new project run the CLI's `create` task, passing a project name:
```

```sh
zksync-cli create demo 
```

> This command will create a `demo` folder and clone a Hardhat template project inside it. The downloaded project is already configured and contains all the required plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates a `demo` folder and clones a Hardhat template project inside it. The downloaded project is already configured and contains all the required plugins.
```

Reviewer: avoid future tense

::: tip Migrating a project
If you want to migrate an existing project, please check the [project migration guide](./migrating-to-zksync.md).
:::

## Hardhat configuration

> The `hardhat.config.ts` file contains a few lines specific to zkSync Era. The most important are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `hardhat.config.ts` file contains a few lines specific to zkSync Era. The most important ones are:
```

> Imports the zkSync deployment and compiler plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: @uF4No

Author: fixed

```typescript
import "@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-deploy";
import "@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-solc";
```

> Dinamically change the network endpoints of the `zkSyncTestnet` network for local tests. This template project includes a basic unit test in the `/test` folder that runs with the local-setup and can be executed with `yarn test`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dynamically change the network endpoints of `zkSyncTestnet` network for local tests. This template project includes a basic unit test in the `/test` folder that runs with the local-setup and can be executed with `yarn test`. 
```

> Dinamically change the network endpoints of the `zkSyncTestnet` network for local tests. This template project includes a basic unit test in the `/test` folder that runs with the local-setup and can be executed with `yarn test`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the network endpoints of the `zkSyncTestnet` network for local tests. The template project also includes a basic unit test in the `/test` folder that runs with the local-setup and can be executed with `yarn test`. 
```

Reviewer: @uF4No

```typescript
// dynamically changes endpoints for local tests
const zkSyncTestnet =
  process.env.NODE_ENV == "test"
    ? {
        url: "http://localhost:3050",
        ethNetwork: "http://localhost:8545",
        zksync: true
      }
    : {
        url: "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev",
        ethNetwork: "goerli",
        zksync: true
      };

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. The template project also includes a basic unit test in the `/test` folder that runs with the local-setup and can be executed with `yarn test`. 

```

Author: I mentioned the tests just because the network details are changed dynamically, but I don't think this should be point 3 of this section "hardhat configuration", cause tests are not really related to hardhat configuration.

Author: then we should probably move it all together to the tip below. I'll do the change

Author: moved to the tip below

::: tip Unit tests
Learn more about how to [start the local setup and write unit tests here](./testing.md).
:::

> The `zksolc` block contains the minimal configuration required for the compiler:

Author: again, numbering does not apply here

> The `zksolc` block contains the minimal configuration required for the compiler:

Reviewer: @uF4No

> The `zksolc` block contains the minimal configuration required for the compiler:

Author: fixed

```typescript
zksolc: {
  version: "1.3.8",
  compilerSource: "binary",
  settings: {},
},
```

::: tip Advanced configuration
To learn more about each specific property in the `hardhat.config.ts` file, check out the [plugins documentation](./plugins.md)
:::

## Environment variables

> This project uses the `dotenv` package to load your private key, which is required to deploy and interact with smart contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project uses the `dotenv` package to load your private key which is required to deploy and interact with smart contracts.
```

> To configure it, duplicate the `.env.example` file, rename it to `.env`, and enter your wallet private key in it. The `.env` is included in the `.gitignore` file so it won't be uploaded to a repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure it, copy the `.env.example` file, rename the copy to `.env`, and add your wallet private key. The `.env` file is included in `.gitignore` so it won't upload to a repository.
```

```text
WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY=abcdef12345....
```

## Compile and deploy a contract

> Smart contracts are placed in the `contracts` folder. The template project contains a simple `Greeter.sol` contract and a script to deploy it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Smart contracts belong in the `contracts` folder. The template project contains a simple `Greeter.sol` contract and a script to deploy it.
```

> To compile the contract, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To compile the contract, run:
```

Reviewer: @uF4No

> ```sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```sh
```

yarn hardhat compile

> ``` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` 

```

You'll see the following output:

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```text
```

Compiling 1 Solidity file
Successfully compiled 1 Solidity file
✨  Done in 1.09s.
```

> The `artifacts-zk` and `cache-zk` folders will be created in the root directory (instead of the regular Hardhat's `artifacts` and `cache`). These folders contain the compilation artifacts (including contract's ABIs) and compiler cache files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `artifacts-zk` and `cache-zk` folders appear in the root directory (instead of the regular Hardhat's `artifacts` and `cache`). These folders contain the compilation artifacts (including contract's ABIs) and compiler cache files.
```

::: tip

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Note that the `artifacts-zk` and `cache-zk` folders  are already included in the `.gitignore` file of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `artifacts-zk` and `cache-zk` folders  are included in the `.gitignore` file.
```

:::

> In the `deploy` folder you'll find the `deploy-greeter.ts` script. This script uses the `Deployer` class from the `hardhat-zksync-deploy` package to deploy the `Greeter.sol` contract. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `deploy-greeter.ts` script is in the `deploy` folder. This script uses the `Deployer` class from the `hardhat-zksync-deploy` package to deploy the `Greeter.sol` contract. 
```

```typescript
import { Wallet, utils } from "zksync-web3";
import * as ethers from "ethers";
import { HardhatRuntimeEnvironment } from "hardhat/types";
import { Deployer } from "@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-deploy";

// load env file
import dotenv from "dotenv";
dotenv.config();

// load wallet private key from env file
const PRIVATE_KEY = process.env.WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY || "";

if (!PRIVATE_KEY)
  throw "⛔️ Private key not detected! Add it to the .env file!";

// An example of a deploy script that will deploy and call a simple contract.
export default async function (hre: HardhatRuntimeEnvironment) {
  console.log(`Running deploy script for the Greeter contract`);

  // Initialize the wallet.

>   const wallet = new Wallet(PRIVATE_KEY);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const wallet = new Wallet("<PRIVATE_KEY>");
```

Reviewer: We should always do something like this to define a placeholder and that it's a string.

Author: it's actually using a variable defined a few lines above in the script, which loads the value from the env file.

Reviewer: argh, no context in git ...

  // Estimate contract deployment fee
  const greeting = "Hi there!";
  const deploymentFee = await deployer.estimateDeployFee(artifact, [greeting]);

  // ⚠️ OPTIONAL: You can skip this block if your account already has funds in L2
  // const depositHandle = await deployer.zkWallet.deposit({
  //   to: deployer.zkWallet.address,
  //   token: utils.ETH_ADDRESS,
  //   amount: deploymentFee.mul(2),
  // });
  // // Wait until the deposit is processed on zkSync
  // await depositHandle.wait();

  // Deploy this contract. The returned object will be of a `Contract` type, similarly to ones in `ethers`.
  // `greeting` is an argument for contract constructor.
  const parsedFee = ethers.utils.formatEther(deploymentFee.toString());
  console.log(`The deployment is estimated to cost ${parsedFee} ETH`);

  const greeterContract = await deployer.deploy(artifact, [greeting]);

  //obtain the Constructor Arguments
  console.log(
    "constructor args:" + greeterContract.interface.encodeDeploy([greeting])
  );

  // Show the contract info.
  const contractAddress = greeterContract.address;
  console.log(`${artifact.contractName} was deployed to ${contractAddress}`);
}
```

> To execute the deployment script run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To execute the deployment script run:
```

> To execute the deployment script run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To execute the deployment script run
```

```sh
yarn hardhat deploy-zksync --script deploy-greeter.ts
```

> This script will deploy the `Greeting` contract with the message "Hi there!" to zkSync Era Testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script deploys the `Greeting` contract with the message "Hi there!" to zkSync Era Testnet.
```

You should see something like this:

```txt
Running deploy script for the Greeter contract
The deployment is estimated to cost 0.00579276320831943 ETH
constructor args:0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000094869207468657265210000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
Greeter was deployed to 0x46f1d2d8A16DBD8b47e9D61175a826ac667288Be4D1293a22E8

✨  Done in 12.69s.
```

**Congratulations! You have deployed a smart contract project to zkSync Era Testnet with Hardhat 🎉**

::: warning Request-Rate Exceeded message
- This message is caused by using the default RPC endpoints provided by ethers. 
- To avoid this, use your own Goerli RPC endpoint in the `hardhat.config.ts` file.
- Find multiple [node providers here](https://github.com/arddluma/awesome-list-rpc-nodes-providers).
:::

## Interact with the contract

> The template project contains another script to interact with the contract, `use-greeter.ts`. To execute it, enter the address of the contract in the `CONTRACT_ADDRESS` variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template project contains another script to interact with the contract, `use-greeter.ts`. To execute it, enter the address of the deployed Greeter contract in the `CONTRACT_ADDRESS` variable:
```
